# Questions generated during my talk

- [Question #1](#one): What’s the piece of (copy)writing you are most proud of?
- [Question #2](#two): Did you compare if ChatGPT philosophical approach changed between it versions? Eg in version 4o?
- [Question #3](#three): You mentioned that you gave chat some specific philosophers as point of reference but have you tried to modify question query for example specify “pretend that you are…” - it can highly impact type of responses
- [Question #4](#four): DSMOS has arrived!
- [Question #5](#five): Isn’t building on top of experiences and thoughts of our ancestors foundation of civilisation? It’s what chat bots are doing kind of
- [Question #6](#six): I didn't get the point (this came up in conversations over wine)
- [Question #7](#seven): What is the Chinese room? (also raised at winery)

### <a name="one">Question #1: What’s the piece of (copy)writing you are most proud of?</a>
That Get a Mac campaign was the pinnacle of the writing chapter in my career. I resigned my position there for many reasons and it wasn't the proximate cause, but among those reasons was the sense that everything after would be a bit of a let-down. We knew that more consumer devices were coming and we would communicate ideas with fewer words and less geekiness. Steve alluded to this in the iPad 2 video that people don't care about speeds and feeds with these devices. Also there were so many products coming out that people couldn't read the depth of text we wrote for earlier launches, we'd need to have shallower thoughts for people to read more of them conserving the attention. I like going deep as you might discern from my talk.

For that period, I also served as DRI for the Mac rebrand in Marcom. On one level I went as into the weeds as to convince the copy editors to stop replacing "Mac" with "Macintosh Computer" which they did because the lawyers told them to to protect the trademark. But nobody said Macintosh computer in everyday language. They say Mac. The transition to Intel computers was part of this work and we rebranded PowerBook as MacBook. The web site had grown from being just about Macs because that was all Apple did to including iPod and iTunes on Windows. We knew another big product line was coming, and coalesced the site to tell a coherent story. One thing that would happen is that product managers would want to talk about update features to generate sales, but that didn't help people buying a Mac understand the baseline features of Mac OS X, iLife, and .Mac. The Apple retail store had launched with Genius Bar and it was running off in its own process. People loved opening Apple products and talking about the unboxing experience. We shifted people away from just thinking about the hardware as Mac, instead, Mac is the entire experience from unboxing to using Mac OS X, iLife, and .Mac to the community learning at Apple Retail and getting help if you need it at the Genius Bar. This information architecture survives on apple.com today.

My writing contribution was the first draft of Top Ten Reasons You'll Love a Mac, which was displayed as a poster in Apple Retail windows. Ken Segall added some flair to it but  left most of my words, and the structure, alone. My first draft went to Chiat/Day to be used as a creative brief. And we made the ads into an ad campaign, which I wrote the Google Adwords for. But I'm really proud of the teamwork: all the writers reporting into me took one of the reasons and made a mini-site on it, which I edited, and all the designers and javascript developers on the team contributed to the project. This also included the trailers team who encoded the Mac vs PC videos on each mini-site. Though I was DRI, this all worked because of the leadership and taste in people from the director of Internet Communications, Dan Marusich. And it was Allison Johnson, who recently worked on a Kamala Harris [video](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7232871151260053504/), who had the idea to mix in the Web team with Graphic Design, which led me to work with its leader Hiroki Asai, Sam Davy who art directed packaging photography, and Rick Vargas, Barry Munsterteiger, and Gary Peters in Retail.

I felt this was a nice bookend to the end of a time at Apple, the start being Games Partnership Manager in Developer Relations working with the Sprocket developers to get games technologies in the core of the system instead of as extensions. This included ensuring there were game controllers on the first iMac which was the first Mac with the new protocol USB. This transmogrification of Input Sprocket for USB was later abstracted into part of the HID manager when Mac OS X shipped. We open-sourced Net Sprocket. Any understanding I have of math acceleration algorithms are thanks to Alex Rosenberg who helped make games perform better for developers in the games kitchens I organized and runs the compiler team now. (Any misunderstandings are my fault.) We also convinced Steve and game developers to adopt OpenGL (with the help of John Carmack standing up in a meeting I organized and facilitated). Any technical decision that survives 18 years is probably pretty good. John later helped Peter Graffagnino reason through how full screen contexts would work, which probably continued into iOS.

I also felt that by the time Leopard came out that the Mac had everything it needed, Apple didn't need me to solve any more problems for it.

If I want to pretend to be ChatGPT here are some more samples of the writing I am most proud of:

- I like it when I can tell the audience reaction. For instance, John Gruber brings up a subhead of mine quite regularly as something he likes: "Because we can" (in reference to Fast User Switching). My boss at the time, Pete Johnson, switched it to "Because OpenGL can" because he thought it was lazy to use "we." I thought it was stronger with we. And obviously I know how this was working more or less, because I "babysat" John Carmack while he talked to Peter. (Someone needed to key him in through security doors.) Before that first meeting with John, I argued the case to Jon Rubinstein and his hardware directors for OpenGL over other game APIs like 3dfx because it could do things like offload the drawing cycle and you could have a 3D interface when Mac OS X shipped without hitting CPU cycles which you should dedicate to application tasks. It was about then that Jon's eyes lit up. My arguments were sealed when I mentioned the unix based 3D bioinformatics software which could run on Mac OS X with relatively little porting as opposed to the Mac OS 9 software. So I'm happy that my arguments led to protein folding on Mac as well as apps like SketchUp in addition to games.

- Another audience reaction with a reverse effect is Steven Sinofsky's to the Get a Mac campaign. He wrote an [awful lot](https://hardcoresoftware.learningbyshipping.com/p/090-im-a-mac) about it. Must have touched a nerve. I have two things to say on this. [Number one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3KdlJlHAAbQ). Number two, Apple leadership sent me to a Windows Vista prelaunch event as research for the campaign. The company was really concerned about Vista coming out and the same thing happening to it as when Windows 95 launched. Turns out that was a non-issue. I was a little annoyed because it was the same time as SXSW and the rest of the team got to go there. I had to go to Las Vegas and maybe MS had it there so developers could avail themselves of the local cuisine. I made no secret of being from Apple, researching Vista because we'd have to make sure explorer ran the site well. Most everyone thought I was just a marketing chick and mansplained everything to me. And, someone from the Windows Media Center was really mad about how Steve introduced the Apple remote, making fun of how many buttons their control had. He said something like "My *wife* would like having only 4 controls. I *need* all the settings in Windows Media Center." Pro-tip: Don't throw your wife under the bus on a conference stage. You never know who is listening. I was going to pull my punches in the campaign but decided to go for the jugular after this.

- For literal "copy"-writing, on one of the [iMac](https://web.archive.org/web/20050612012248/http://www.apple.com/imac/) launches, Walt Mossberg lifted the copy from the website almost verbatim in one of his reviews, which meant that he couldn't rephrase my point more elegantly (or he was under deadline). Either way it was fun to be copied by him. 

- My favorite piece pre Apple is this feature cover article from [MacAddict](https://archive.org/details/MacAddict-013-199709), I also edited all the related feature articles in the issue.

- Not my writing, but I'm proud of the career of Bronwyn Jones, who was my first hire as a manager. Obviously her work is hers but I'm proud of it. One of her first efforts was the iPod shuffle launch. We on the web team would usually work through the night before a Stevenote, exchanging our work with Wayne Goodrich who worked on his slides. For this keynote, Steve wanted to compare the size of the iPod shuffle to a stick of chewing gum, and wanted us to put that on the web site not just the ephemeral keynote, which had us stay up till 4AM. We were a little punchy. We had opinions about this choice but of course did whatever Steve wanted. There always was legal text at the bottom of the page. Brownyn added "Do not eat iPod Shuffle." I approved this message. Apple Legal made us remove it the next day, but not before it inspired this [poem](https://fromwhencefragment.com/i-ate-ipod-shuffle). Bronwyn went on to write some jokes for Siri, amongst other things. I also felt I could leave Apple because Bronwyn would carry the torch for me and she exceeded my expectations.

### <a name="two">Question #2: Did you compare if ChatGPT philosophical approach changed between it versions? Eg in version 4o?</a>
I used the free version last Wednesday which was version 4.0 mini. I didn't try on earlier versions.

### <a name="three">#Question #3: You mentioned that you gave chat some specific philosophers as point of reference but have you tried to modify question query for example specify “pretend that you are…” - it can highly impact type of responses</a>

I haven't done that but maybe I will make a series out of that. Thanks for the suggestion. I think my first try will be "Pretend you are Henry David Thoreau opining on doomscrolling Twitter (especially after Elon Musk turned it into a nazi bar) like he did in Mahatma Ghandi's favorite essay of his, Life without Principles, when talking about reading newspapers every day. Be sure to say something disdainful about the gossiping townfolk you rely on to pack your lunches."

### <a name="four">Question #4: DSMOS has arrived!</a>
For people who don't know what that is, here is some context on [DSMOS](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=9589961). Fun fact, I wrote the [Boot Camp](https://web.archive.org/web/20060409082435/http://www.apple.com/macosx/bootcamp/) beta site holed up with design manager Rand Hill. Management would have us work on secret efforts because we could keep secrets, knew a lot of context and could understand the tech quickly, and worked well and quickly together to make a well-formed page. I was pretty mouthy in the EFI vs BIOS and Word to the Wise sidebars.

### <a name="five">Question #5: Isn’t building on top of experiences and thoughts of our ancestors foundation of civilisation? It’s what chat bots are doing kind of</a>
Yes, but one thing is you can't trademark or copyright an idea, only the specific instantiation of it with patents or copyrights. If you live in a country that has adopted the Berne convention or are an American you are subject to IP laws. You can argue about them, but in the US constitution it's phrased like this: 

> [The Congress shall have Power . . . ] To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.

So absolutely we want to be able to remix culture. But if we want more source material we need to respect copyright which enables Authors and Inventors the exclusive right to their works for a limited time. And if we want to be able to go deeper on an answer we want to be able to ask the creator about their influences. For a human creator, journalists interview them and you get sent down rabbit holes learning about various threads in our rich cultural tapestry. Pretty sure AI summary features deliberately obscure source URLs in order to not be accused of copyright theft. And I really like what Huxley did in The Perennial Philosophy. In a rather stream of consciousness output, he referred to lots of other interesting thinkers. I got works by those people after reading that book which you can't do with an AI answer that erases authorship. 

I'm pretty ok with using source material from that "Time of the death of the author + 50 years" so think it's fine to ask an AI to pretend to be Thoreau. I wouldn't want it to pretend to be Judith Butler or Cornel West since they are still alive and should have a say in how they are presented at least until they are dead for 50 years. I don't think it should be too hard to write a rule which enforced that, Wikipedia has year of death for most famous dead people.

My more provocative opinion is that some computer scientists don't know how to do creative efforts and don't value the time and effort of authoring, can't write, and need the crutch of AI to form non-academic sentences. NYTimes alludes to the effort of creation when discussing the editorial process in its lawsuit against OpenAI. And some people do something without payment for the credit, this doesn't mean that its value is nothing. The credit should be respected.

Copyright allows fair use for scholarly and critical ends, not wholesale copying of the whole body of work.

### <a name="six">Question #6]: I didn't get the point (this came up in conversations over wine)</a>
I rarely do things for just one reason. I like overloading operators. Here are some points.

1. I wanted to provoke your thoughts so you would think about the topic and draw your own conclusions.
2. Relatedly, I wanted to demonstrate a talk whose purpose it is to provoke thought in the audience as a alternate to other talk formats, using techniques from the tradition I was raised in which I learned mostly by watching my father, a fourth-generation theologian. He once said of a continuing education course at Harvard with Huston Smith: you don't go to college to get answers but to learn how to ask better questions. So I succeeded if you are thinking about the topic and wondering what the right answer is. It is also a technique to prepare a ChatGPT conversation for more interesting results.
3. I wanted to show that you get deeper answers the more inputs you give ChatGPT. If you think about the math, you are invoking more pointers and you get that multiplicative effect I talked about rather than the additive. I forgot to add that if you want to get "right and true and good" answers, you should ask some questions with Thoreau, Emerson, Austin, James, Maybeck, and Reed to build out the context. If you wanted wrong and false and bad, put Hitler, Stalin, and Pol Pot on the context. As ChatGPT says in one of the answers, it isn't self-reflective and doesn't have ethical considerations, it's up to users and developers to have them. I personally think this is a wrong answer for society, I think we should be striving for right and true and good answers. If we don't try to disallow the wrong and bad and false answers it is too easy with the scale of AI for them to be released without the possibility of rolling them back. I know that some people don't want this, they call this the "woke mind virus." I'm ok with cultivating the continuance of enlightenment thinking. We'll see who ends up on the right side of history.
4. No one person can solve AI ethical problems but if we are all thinking about it, we'll get to the right answer together. Sometimes you need a relatively fearless person to start the conversation. I'm not the only one thinking about this (and people like [Margaret Mitchell](https://www.m-mitchell.com) have thought more deeply on the topic than me), but we need to externalize our thoughts for there to be progress here.
5. I really need your help to propagate the idea about server solutions compensating for carbon consumption at 2X. You shouldn't just pay for your carbon use but the opportunity cost of that renewable to not be used to offset private jet fuel and cement projects. This is especially true for model training which can take hundreds of runs but also for just more prosaic website hosting. Please advocate for this in your organization.
6. Don't steal material for training data. Make sure this content is either public domain or has rights cleared. Some people will even let you use your stuff for free, you just have to ask. If you steal, you might get true answers and maybe even right but they won't be good. Intent matters.

### <a name="seven">Question #7</a>: What is the Chinese room? (also raised at winery)

Oh let me add a [link](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_room) in the resource section.